.ds command dcut
.ds COMMAND DCUT
.\" ==========
.TH "\*[COMMAND]" 1 "2017-01-09" "Debian"
.
.\" ==========
.SH NAME
.B \*[command]
\- Debian command upload tool for the archive upload queue
.
.\" ==========
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-Pds
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
.OP \-k KEYID
.OP \-m MAINTAINER
.OP \-O COMMANDFILE
\f[R][\f[]
.RB [ \-\-host ]
.IR HOSTNAME ]
.I COMMAND
.RB [ ,
.IR COMMAND ]
\f[R].\|.\|.\f[]
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-Pds
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
.OP \-k KEYID
.OP \-m MAINTAINER
.OP \-O COMMANDFILE
\f[R][\f[]
.RB [ \-\-host ]
.IR HOSTNAME ]
.B \-i
.I CHANGESFILE
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-Pds
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
\f[R][\f[]
.RB [ \-\-host ]
.IR HOSTNAME ]
.B \-U
.I COMMANDFILE
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.B \-h
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.B \-v
.YS
.
.\" ==========
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.P
.B \*[command]
creates and / or uploads Debian queue commands files for a Debian
repository upload queue.
.
It is a companion for
.BR dput (1)
and uses dput configuration files (see \f[B]FILES\f[], below).
.
.P
The normal workflow is:
.
.IP \[bu]
Determine the queue control commands.
.
.IP \[bu]
Compose the batch of commands to upload.
.
.IP \[bu]
Determine the hostname of the queue host.
.
.IP \[bu]
Upload the commands to the queue host.
.
.SS Determine queue control commands
.
.P
In the default command-line syntax, parse each command-line argument
\f[I]COMMAND\f[], in the format needed by a Debian archive queue
manager.
.
Multiple queue commands must be separated by a comma
.RB ( , )
as a separate word between each command.
.
.P
See \f[B]COMMANDS\f[] below for valid queue commands.
.
.P
When the \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] parameter is specified, instead parse
that file and compose a \f[B]rm\f[] command for each file specified in
\f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[].
.
.P
If the
.B \-\-upload
.RB ( \-U )
option is specified, instead read the queue control commands from the
file \f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[].
.
.SS Compose the batch of commands
.
.P
The \f[B]Uploader\f[] field in the batch is set to the package
maintainer specification \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[].
.
If not specified, the value of \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[] is derived from
environment variables (see \f[B]ENVIRONMENT\f[], below).
.
.P
The \f[B]Commands\f[] field in the batch is set to the sequence of
queue control commands determined.
.
.P
If the
.B \-\-output
.RB ( \-O )
option is specified, write the batch to the file named by its
\f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[] argument.
.
Otherwise, write the batch to a temporary file and remove it after
upload.
.
.P
After writing the batch of commands to a file, sign the file with
.BR debsign (1).
.
The \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[] and \f[I]KEYID\f[] parameters, if specified,
are passed to the
.B debsign
command.
.
.P
If the
.B \-\-upload
.RB ( \-U )
option is specified, do not compose the batch of commands; instead use
the content of its \f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[] argument as the name of the
command file to upload to the queue host.
.
.SS Determine the queue host
.
The \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] must match one of the named hosts in the
configuration (see
.BR dput.cf (5)).
.
The value is determined as follows:
.
.IP \[bu]
If the \f[B]\-\-host\f[] option is specified, use that option's
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] argument.
.
.IP \[bu]
If the first non-option argument is not a valid queue command, that is
interpreted as the \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[].
.
.IP \[bu]
Otherwise, \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] defaults to the value of the
.B default_host_main
configuration parameter.
.
.SS Upload queue commands
.
.P
Upload the composed batch of queue commands to the queue host
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[], using the parameters in the
.BR dput.cf (5)
configuration for that host.
.
.P
If the
.B \-\-output
.RB ( \-O )
option is specified, do not upload the commands to the queue host.
Instead, leave the composed file \f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[] on the
filesystem.
.
.\" ==========
.SH COMMANDS
.
.P
Presently supported commands are:
.
.TP
.B rm
Remove files from the UploadQueue directories.
.
\f[B]\*[command]\f[] generates commands that search the subdirectories
automatically, but you can also specify \f[B]\-\-nosearchdirs\f[] and
then target individual UploadQueue directories, i.e. either filenames
without path for regular incoming or
\f[B]DELAYED/\f[]\f[I]DAYS\f[]\f[B]-day\f[]\f[B]/\f[]\f[I]filename\f[].
.
Wildcards are accepted.
.
.TP
.BI reschedule " CHANGESFILE DAYS" -day
Move an upload from any \f[B]DEFERRED\f[] queue to
.IB DAYS -day
(use \fB0-day\fR for immediate processing).
.
.TP
.BI cancel " CHANGESFILE"
Cancels an upload from \fBDEFERRED\fR.
.
.P
Both \fBreschedule\fR and \fBcancel\fR take a complete basename
of a changes file as argument and operate on the whole upload,
they process the changes and all files mentioned by it.
.
.P
The authoritative documentation for the commands interface
can be found at
.UR ftp://ftp.upload.debian.org/pub/UploadQueue/README
.UE .
.
.\" ==========
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.BI \-c " CONFIGFILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-config " CONFIGFILE"
Use the file \f[I]CONFIGFILE\f[] for configuration.
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the specification of this file format.
.
.TP
.B \-d
.TQ
.B \-\-debug
Display debugging messages.
.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Display help information, then exit.
.
.TP
.BI \-\-host " HOSTNAME"
Specify the \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] unambiguously.
.
This allows naming a host that may be ambiguous with a queue command.
.
.TP
.BI \-m " MAINTAINER"
.TQ
.BI \-\-maintainer " MAINTAINER"
Use \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[] for the \f[B]Uploader\f[] field and GnuPG key
selection.
.
This has no effect when \f[B]\-\-upload\f[] is used.
.
.TP
.BI \-k " KEYID"
.TQ
.BI \-\-keyid " KEYID"
Specify the GnuPG key id \f[I]KEYID\f[] to pass to the
.BR debsign (1)
command.
.
This has no effect when \f[B]\-\-upload\f[] is used.
.
.TP
.BI \-O " COMMANDFILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-output " COMMANDFILE"
Write commands file to \f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[] instead of uploading.
.
You should not specify a \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] when using this option.
.
Also, this option should not be used with \f[B]\-\-upload\f[].
.
.TP
.B \-P
.TQ
.B \-\-passive
Use passive mode for FTP.
.
If not specified, default for FTP is active mode.
.
.TP
.B \-s
.TQ
.B \-\-simulate
Do not actually upload to the queue host.
.
.TP
.BI \-U " COMMANDFILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-upload " COMMANDFILE"
Instead of composing a new queue command file, upload the existing
file \f[I]COMMANDFILE\f[].
.
Note: No checks (syntax or presence/validity of signature) are
currently performed.
.
.TP
.BI \-i " CHANGESFILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-input " CHANGESFILE"
Do not parse queue commands from the command line. Instead, read the
package changes file \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] and compose a \f[B]rm\f[]
command for each file specified in \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[].
.
This has no effect when \f[B]\-\-upload\f[] is used.
.
.TP
.B \-v
.TQ
.B \-\-version
Display version information, then exit.
.
.\" ==========
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.B DEBEMAIL
.TQ
.B EMAIL
.
If \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[] is not specified, use the first of these which
has a value to determine the email address portion of
\f[I]MAINTAINER\f[].
.
.TP
.B DEBFULLNAME
.
If \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[] is not specified, use this value to determine
the full name portion of \f[I]MAINTAINER\f[].
.
.TP
.B USER
.
If no username is specified for authenticating to the remote host, use
the value of this variable.
.
.\" ==========
.SH FILES
.
.TP
Configuration
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the files to configure
.B \*[command].
.
.\" ==========
.SH EXAMPLES
.
.P
To upload a GPG signed commands file that removes dput_0.9.2.33_all.deb
file from the queue, one would have to do:
.
.P
.EX
$ \*[command] rm dput_0.9.2.33_all.deb
.EE
.
.P
This creates and uploads a commands file that looks like the following:
.
.P
.EX
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Uploader: Foo Bar <foo@bar.org>
Commands:
 rm dput_0.9.2.33_all.deb


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (GNU/Linux)

iEYEARECAAYKAkisYx0ACgkQ4eu+pS04mIfwLQCg85XVpae/LHLrbvzywcQNt9PS
ztsAoMgw6HjcI9flfmwjgMiapcu379Pu
=fjp0
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
.EE
.
.P
To upload a GPG signed commands file that removes files named in
dput_0.9.4_i386.changes from the queue, one would have to do:
.
.P
.EX
$ \*[command] \-\-input dput_0.9.4_i386.changes
.EE
.
.P
This creates and uploads a commands file that looks like the following:
.
.P
.EX
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Uploader: Foo Bar <foo@bar.org>
Commands:
 rm \-\-searchdirs dput_0.9.4.dsc
 rm \-\-searchdirs dput_0.9.4.tar.gz
 rm \-\-searchdirs dput_0.9.4_all.deb


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (GNU/Linux)

iEYEARECAAYKAkisYx0ACgkQ4eu+pS04mIfwLQCg85XVpae/LHLrbvzywcQNt9PS
ztsAoMgw6HjcI9flfmwjgMiapcu379Pu
=fjp0
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
.EE
.
.P
If you've uploaded packages with the \f[B]\-\-delayed\f[] option
(uploaded to \f[B]DEFERRED\f[] queue), then use the \f[B]cancel\f[]
command with a .changes file:
.
.P
.EX
$ \*[command] cancel dput_0.9.4_i386.changes
.EE
.
.P
This creates and uploads a commands file just like the other commands.
.
.\" ==========
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR dput (1),
.BR dput.cf (5),
.BR debsign (1)
.
.P
.UR ftp://ftp.upload.debian.org/pub/UploadQueue/README
Read Me document for the Debian upload queue
.UE .
.
.\" Copyright © 2016–2018 Ben Finney <bignose@debian.org>
.
.\" This is free software: you may copy, modify, and/or distribute this work
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; version 3 of that license or any later version.
.\" No warranty expressed or implied. See the file ‘LICENSE.GPL-3’ for details.
.
.\" Local variables:
.\" coding: utf-8
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
.\" vim: fileencoding=utf-8 filetype=nroff :
