.ds command dput
.ds COMMAND DPUT
.\" ==========
.TH "\*[COMMAND]" 1 "2016-12-31" "Debian"
.
.\" ==========
.SH NAME
.B \*[command]
\- Debian package upload tool
.
.\" ==========
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-DPUVdflosu
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
.OP \-e DAYS
.RI [ HOSTNAME [:ARGUMENT] ]
.I CHANGESFILE
\f[R].\|.\|.\f[]
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-d
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
.B \-H
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.OP \-d
.OP \-c CONFIGFILE
.B \-p
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.B \-h
.YS
.
.SY \*[command]
.B \-v
.YS
.
.\" ==========
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.P
Upload, to the Debian package upload queue, the files constituting the
package specified in each \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[].
.
.P
A Debian package release comprises several files, specified in the
\f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] for that release. The Debian Package Upload Tool
.RB ( \*[command] )
performs several verification checks on the package, then (if the
verifications succeed) uploads those files to the remote Debian
package repository.
.
See \f[B]VERIFICATION CHECKS\f[], below, for a description of the checks
.B \*[command]
can perform on each package.
.
.P
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] is a name matching a host section in the
.BR dput.cf (5)
configuration. If not specified, \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] defaults to the
value of the \f[B]default_host_main\f[] configuration parameter.
.
You also can
pass an argument to the host by appending the hostname with a colon followed
by the argument. For example, you can upload easily to different launchpad PPAs
by passing the PPAs' id to the ppa host without having to modify dput.cf.
.
.P
The file transfer method is determined by the \f[B]method\f[]
configuration parameter for the specified host. See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the set of supported \f[B]method\f[] values.
.
.P
If the configuration specifies a \f[B]pre_upload_command\f[] for the
remote host, execute a shell subprocess for that command before
attempting to upload each package.
.
.P
If the configuration specifies a \f[B]post_upload_command\f[] for the
remote host, execute a shell subprocess for that command after each
successful package upload.
.
.\" ==========
.SH VERIFICATION CHECKS
.
.P
Each package release, as specified by a \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[], is
checked to see whether it is suitable for upload. The following checks
are available:
.
.TP
Unique upload
.
The package should not already have been uploaded to the remote host
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[].
.
.IP ""
Check for the log file created when
.B \*[command]
successfully uploads a package. If the corresponding log file already
exists, abort the upload attempt.
.
This is unique only for the combination of local machine (where the
upload log is recorded), the \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] name, and the remote
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[].
.
.IP ""
This check is disabled if the \f[B]\-\-force\f[] option is specified.
.
.TP
Required package files
.
The package should comprise the required files for the type of package.
.
.IP ""
If this is a source package release, and the required source control
file (\f[I]….dsc\f[]) is not part of the package, abort the upload
attempt.
.
.IP ""
If this is a source package release, and the version string implies
that this is the first Debian release for this version, and the
corresponding source tarball is not part of the package, abort the
upload attempt.
.
.IP ""
If the package contains the upstream source tarball, but this is not
required for this release, emit a warning that the upload might be
rejected by the remote host.
.
.IP ""
If the package contains the Debian-native source tarball, but this is
not required for this release, emit a warning that the upload might be
rejected by the remote host.
.
.TP
Successful local install
.
The package should be successfully installed on the local system.
.
.IP ""
If this is a binary package release, and each binary package
(\f[I]….deb\f[] file) is not successfully installed on the local
system at the specified version, abort the upload.
.
.IP ""
This check is disabled by default. It is enabled when the
configuration parameter \f[B]check_version\f[] is true.
.
.TP
Cryptographic signature
.
The GnuPG signature on the \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] should match that file's contents.
.
If this is a source package release, the GnuPG signature on the source
control file (\f[I]….dsc\f[]) should match that file's contents.
.
.IP ""
If GnuPG does not report a good signature for these files, abort the upload.
.
.IP ""
This check is disabled when either the \f[B]allow_unsigned_uploads\f[]
parameter is true, or the \f[B]\-\-check\-only\f[] option is
specified.
.
.TP
Package files content match
.
The computed size and hash values for each constituent file should
match the values specified in \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[].
.
.IP ""
For each file size and hash value specified in \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[],
compute the size and hash using the corresponding named file's
contents on the filesystem.
.
If any computed size or hash value does not match the corresponding
value in \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[], abort the upload.
.
.TP
Distribution name is permitted for the remote host
.
The configuration for \f[I]HOSTNAME\f[] should permit the distribution
name specified in the package.
.
.IP ""
If the package release's target Debian distribution name is not one
specified by the \f[B]distributions\f[] parameter for the
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[], abort the upload attempt.
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the \f[B]distributions\f[] parameter.
.
.TP
Lintian success
.
The package should get a successful report from Lintian.
.
.IP ""
Invoke the Lintian tool to check the package described by
\f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[]. If the check is unsuccessful (exit status
non-zero), abort the upload attempt.
.
.IP ""
This check is disabled by default. It is enabled when the
configuration parameter \f[B]run_lintian\f[] is true, or the
\f[B]\-\-lintian\f[] option is specified.
.
.\" ==========
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.BI \-c " CONFIGFILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-config " CONFIGFILE"
Use the file \f[I]CONFIGFILE\f[] for configuration.
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the specification of this file format.
.
.TP
.B \-d
.TQ
.B \-\-debug
Display debugging messages.
.
.TP
.B \-D
.TQ
.B \-\-dinstall
Request a dry run of
.B dinstall
on the remote host after the upload.
.
.TP
.B \-f
.TQ
.B \-\-force
Disable the check for a unique upload.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of this check.
.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Display help information, then exit.
.
.TP
.B \-H
.TQ
.B \-\-host\-list
Display the lists of hosts known to the configuration, then exit.
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the specification of hosts.
.
.TP
.B \-l
.TQ
.B \-\-lintian
Enable the Lintian verification check, and exit if the check fails.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of this check.
.
.TP
.B \-U
.TQ
.B \-\-no\-upload\-log
Do not write a log file when uploading files.
.
.IP ""
This omits the record used later for checking whether an upload is unique.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of this check.
.
.TP
.BR \-o
.TQ
.B \-\-check\-only
Do not upload the files, and disable the checks for unique upload and
cryptographic signature.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of these checks.
.
.TP
.B \-p
.TQ
.B \-\-print
Display the configuration that \f[B]\*[command]\f[] is using, then exit.
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the configuration format.
.
.TP
.B \-P
.TQ
.B \-\-passive
Use passive mode for FTP.
.
If not specified, default for FTP is active mode.
.
.TP
.B \-s
.TQ
.B \-\-simulate
Do not actually upload to the remote host.
.
.TP
.B \-u
.TQ
.B \-\-unchecked
Disable the check for cryptographic signature.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of this check.
.
.TP
.BI \-e " DAYS"
.TQ
.BI \-\-delayed " DAYS"
Upload to a \f[B]DELAYED\f[] queue, rather than the usual
\f[B]Incoming\f[].
.
This takes a \f[I]DAYS\f[] argument from 0 to 15. Note that a delay of
0 is different from no delay at all.
.
.TP
.B \-v
.TQ
.B \-\-version
Display version information, then exit.
.
.TP
.B \-V
.TQ
.B \-\-check\-version
Enable the check for successful local install.
.
See
.BR "VERIFICATION CHECKS" ,
above, for a description of this check.
.
.\" ==========
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
.B USER
.
If no username is specified for authenticating to the remote host, use
the value of this variable.
.
.\" ==========
.SH FILES
.
.TP
Configuration
.
See
.BR dput.cf (5)
for the files to configure
.B \*[command].
.
.TP
.B \f[I]path\f[]/\f[I]basename\f[].\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[].upload
The log file that contains a record of the successful upload to
\f[I]HOSTNAME\f[].
.
.IP ""
\f[I]path\f[] is the directory path of \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[].
.
.IP ""
\f[I]basename\f[] is derived from the \f[I]CHANGESFILE\f[] filename,
by removing the directory path and the \f[B].changes\f[] suffix.
.
.\" ==========
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR dput.cf (5),
.BR dcut (1),
.BR lintian (1)
.
.P
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/dput/
\[oq]dput\[cq] package documentation
.UE ,
.UR file:///usr/share/dput/
\[oq]dput\[cq] program files
.UE .
.
.\" Copyright © 2016–2018 Ben Finney <bignose@debian.org>
.
.\" This is free software: you may copy, modify, and/or distribute this work
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; version 3 of that license or any later version.
.\" No warranty expressed or implied. See the file ‘LICENSE.GPL-3’ for details.
.
.\" Local variables:
.\" coding: utf-8
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
.\" vim: fileencoding=utf-8 filetype=nroff :
