.ds command dput
.ds format dput.cf
.ds FORMAT DPUT.CF
.\" ==========
.TH "\*[FORMAT]" 5 "2016-12-27" "Debian"
.
.\" ==========
.SH NAME
.B \*[format]
\- Debian package upload tool configuration file
.
.\" ==========
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manpage gives a brief overview of \*[command]'s configuration file and the
available options in it.
\fB\*[command]\fP is a tool to upload Debian packages to the archive.
.PP
.
.\" ==========
.SH FORMAT
.
.P
.B \*[format]
consists of different groups of configuration options, one for each
host where you want to be able to upload packages. Hosts are defined
using an identifier header with a short name for the host, enclosed in
square brackets.
.
For example, a section named
.B foo.example.org
is introduced with the header:
.EX
.B [foo.example.org]
.EE
.
.P
Note that if multiple section names in the configuration match the
specified hostname, only the last matching section is considered. This
is done to avoid confusion when overriding a global configuration file
with a user-specific one.
.
.P
A special section name,
.BR DEFAULT ,
holds default parameters for all the hosts. The defaults can be
overridden by redefining them again in each host section.
.
.P
The available parameters are listed below.
.
.TP
.BI "fqdn = " "DOMAIN\f[R][\f[]\f[B]:\f[]\f[I]PORT\f[]\f[R]]\f[]"
Connect to the remote host using the fully-qualified domain
.IR DOMAIN ,
connecting on port
.IR PORT .
.
The port is only relevant for HTTP or FTP protocols.
.
.TP
.BI "login = " USERNAME
Authenticate to this host with the username
.IR USERNAME .
.
If
.I USERNAME
is a single asterisk \fB*\fR, the
.B scp
and
.B rsync
methods will not supply a login name when invoking the
.BR ssh ,
.BR scp ,
and
.BR rsync
commands.
.
.TP
.BI "incoming = " PATH
Upload files to the filesystem path
.I PATH
on this host.
.
.TP
.BI "method = " METHOD
Use the file transfer method
.I METHOD
for uploading files to this host.
.
Currently,
.B \*[command]
accepts the following values for
.IR METHOD :
.
.RS
.
.TP
.B ftp
The package will be uploaded via FTP, either anonymously or using a
login and password.
.
Note that FTP is unencrypted so you should not use password
authentication with this.
.
.TP
.B http
.TQ
.B https
The package will be uploaded via HTTP or HTTPS using the PUT method
as specified in WebDAV.
.
The upload method will prompt for a password if necessary.
.
.TP
.B scp
The package will be uploaded using SSH's
.BR scp .
.
This transfers files using a secure SSH tunnel, and needs
authentication credentials on the remote machine.
.
.TP
.B sftp
the package will be uploaded using ssh's sftp. This transfers files using a
secure ssh tunnel, and needs sftp access on the upload machine.
.TP
.B rsync
The package will be uploaded using
.B rsync
over the SSH protocol.
.
This is similar to
.BR scp ,
but can save some bandwidth if the destination file already exists on
the remote server. It also needs authentication credentials for the
remote machine as it uses SSH.
.
.TP
.B local
The package will be "uploaded" locally using
.BR /usr/bin/install .
.
This transfers files to a local incoming directory, and needs
appropriate permissions set on that directory.
.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI "hash = " ALGORITHM
Use the hash algorithm
.I ALGORITHM
to compute the checksum of all files before the upload. If any hash
does not match the value specified in the
.IR CHANGESFILE ,
the upload does not happen.
.
Currently,
.B \*[command]
accepts the following values for
.IR ALGORITHM :
.
.RS
.
.TP
.B md5
The MD5 algorithm.
.
.TP
.B sha
The SHA-1 algorithm.
.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI "allow_unsigned_uploads = " FLAG
If
.I FLAG
is true,
.B \*[command]
may upload files without a GnuPG signature.
.
.TP
.BI "allow_dcut = " FLAG
If
.I FLAG
is true,
.B dcut
may upload a queue commands file to remove or move files in the queue
on this host.
.
.TP
.BI "distributions = " NAMES
If defined,
.I NAMES
is a comma-separated list of distributions that this host accepts.
.
This is used to guess the host to use when none is specified on the
command line.
.
.TP
.BI "allowed_distributions = " PATTERN
If defined,
.B \*[command]
will refuse the upload if the distribution field does not match
.I REGEX
using Python's \f[B]re\f[] syntax.
.
.TP
.BI "delayed = " DAYS
An integer giving the “days” parameter for delayed uploads to this host.
.
If defined,
.B \*[command]
will upload to the queue named
.BI DELAYED/ DAYS
(i.e. uploads to this host will be delayed the specified number of
days). Defaults to the empty string, meaning no delay.
.
This only works with hosts that support delayed uploads.
.
.TP
.BI "run_lintian = " FLAG
If
.I FLAG
is true,
.B \*[command]
will run
.BR lintian (1)
on the
.I CHANGESFILE
before uploading. If the package is not Lintian clean, the upload will
not happen.
.
.TP
.BI "run_dinstall = " FLAG
If
.I FLAG
is true,
.B \*[command]
will run
.B "dinstall \-n"
after the package has been uploaded.
.
This is an easy way to test if your package would be installed into
the archive or not.
.
.TP
.BI "check_version = " FLAG
This option defines if \*[command] should check if the user has
installed the package in his system for testing it before putting it
into the archive. If the user has not installed and tested it,
\*[command] will reject the upload.
.
.TP
.BI "passive_ftp = " FLAG
This option defines if \*[command] should use passive ftp or active
ftp for uploading a package to one of the upload queues.
.
By default, \*[command] uses passive ftp connections. If you need to
use active ftp connections, set passive_ftp to 0.
.
.TP
.BI "progress_indicator = " STYLE
Display a progress indicator using style
.I STYLE
for uploads to this host.
.
(Currently implemented for \f[B]ftp\f[] method only.)
.
.IP ""
Supported values for
.IR STYLE :
.
.RS
.
.TP
.B 0
(default) No progress indicator.
.
.TP
.B 1
Rotating progress indicator.
.
.TP
.B 2
Kilobyte counter.
.
.RE
.
.TP
.BI "scp_compress = " FLAG
If
.I FLAG
is true and the
.I METHOD
is
.BR scp ,
enable SSH compression for uploads to this host.
.
This parameter has been found to decrease upload time for slow links,
and increase upload times for faster links.
.
.TP
.BI "ssh_config_options = " OPTIONS
Specify the command-line options (text) to pass to all automatic
invocations of
.B ssh
and
.BR scp .
.
The
.I OPTIONS
should be SSH client configuration options, as documented in
.BR ssh_config (5).
.
Note that you can define multiline (dput) configuration options by
indenting the second line with whitespace (i.e. similar to RFC822
header continuations).
.
.TP
.BI "post_upload_command = " COMMAND
If defined,
.B \*[command]
will invoke the command
.I COMMAND
after a successful upload.
.
.TP
.BI "pre_upload_command = " COMMAND
If defined,
.B \*[command]
will invoke the command
.I COMMAND
before attempting an upload.
.
.TP
.BI "default_host_main = " HOSTNAME
Specify to use the
.B \*[format]
section named
.I HOSTNAME
for packages that are allowed to be uploaded to the main archive.
.
This variable is used when guessing the host to upload to.
.
.\" ==========
.SH HOST ARGUMENT
.P
If a user passes an argument to a host by appending the hostname with a colon,
.B %(HOSTNAME)s
will be replaced with the specified argument. Otherwise, it will be replaced
with an empty string.
.
.\" ==========
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.B /etc/dput.cf
Global configuration file.
.
.TP
.B ~/.dput.cf
Per-user configuration file.
.
.\" ==========
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR dput (1)
.
.P
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/dput/
\[oq]dput\[cq] package documentation
.UE .
.
.\" Copyright © 2016–2018 Ben Finney <bignose@debian.org>
.
.\" This is free software: you may copy, modify, and/or distribute this work
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; version 3 of that license or any later version.
.\" No warranty expressed or implied. See the file ‘LICENSE.GPL-3’ for details.
.
.\" Local variables:
.\" coding: utf-8
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
.\" vim: fileencoding=utf-8 filetype=nroff :
